hope you enjoy this episode brought to
you by our sponsors at peak tea
go to peaktee.com impact and you'll get
five percent off your first order
enjoy the episode
[Music]
everybody welcome to another episode of
conversations with tom i am here with
greg
lukianov greg welcome to the show man
great let's do it
thanks for having me dude i'm really
excited about this so
i had first encountered you through um
you co-authoring coddling of the
american mind which
was an extraordinary book for me as
somebody with a lot of employees
that were much younger than me it really
helped me begin to recontextualize sort
of how they'd come up
we will definitely talk about that but
the part that i didn't see coming when i
first started researching you was all
the first amendment work
and the documentary uh mighty ira which
i had probably heard his name before but
didn't really know
about him in his time at the aclu and um
you know all the stuff that shook down
in like skokie illinois
and the nazis marching there it's like
really crazy
how at the absolute center of the first
amendment free speech
you really are um and i'm really curious
one how do you describe yourself and
then two
i'll want to know how you ended up as a
first amendment attorney
oh wow that's a that's a long story um
hmm
well i describe myself still as a
political liberal um but i think that
i'm a little bit of a retro in the sense
of i'm like probably a liberal circle
uh circa 1983. you know it is sometimes
the way i think of it
um but the way i came to free speech um
you know i'm a very proud first
generation american
my um my grandfather fought in the
bolshevik revolution we were um
uh we could have been labeled cool locks
because we were peasants who made good
um my great great grandfather meaning
you were successful
so having having read the um gulag
archipelago
like yeah what ends up happening to the
kulaks is pretty terrifying
yeah um and it's kind of funny because
in any other country they were um
that that's just that's a success story
peasants who were slaves
until late 1861 to start doing well
and we did really well we became
professors and lawyers
and you know like my grandfather was
actually studying at kiev polytechnic
right at the outbreak of world war one
um and that was you know
he's going to be a engineer what was the
idea
um but do you have any sense what made
that first generation of your family
successful
no it's really interesting
my grandfather died when my father was
six and it cut off a lot of that history
um the uh yeah it's russian so there's
constant tragedy tragedy um
i don't really know um i don't really
know how we moved up so quickly um why
did the kulaks
get turned against like what was it that
made them a target for
actual murder well first of all it's
really important to understand that
kulak isn't really a thing
um it it means basically fist in russian
and it's
made up like it's basically like it's
treating a group of people
who are very dissimilar as if they are a
group of people so you can hate them
um what was the thing they used as the
similarity to identify them or
categorize them
uh peasant farmers who own their own
land um
they were only peasant farmers that were
successful or was it any peasant farmer
pretty much if you owned your own land
you were successful um and
uh yeah and and so we didn't fit all
that well within the theory essentially
if if the entire system is so rigged
that you need um a revolution
there is this inconvenient fact that
there is at least not a sufficient
number of the population to be sure and
i understand the complaint about that
but there was this large you know
burgeoning middle class
that didn't fit very well within the
theory and then what is the revolution
for people that don't understand russian
history very well what was the
revolution that was being called for and
why didn't that fit the narrative
oh man okay so that's that's a long
story partially because
um it's all colored by the uh
catastrophic
disaster that was world war one in in
russia
um you know you know the there was uh
revolts against the tsar
in 1905 he set up a parliament now
what's amazing is the tsar was tr
zard and um alexander ii was trying to
set up a
um a douma in 1863 1862
and he was um and this is after he he
freed the serfs
and he was killed on the way by by a
revolutionary on the way
to like trying to create trying to
decrease his own power because
the revolutionaries thought that that
would um be to
placate the masses too much and they'd
never get their glorious
revolution um that they want what what
they've
usually kind of a marxist idea of what
the what the future would look like
so a lot of my family history is like
working people trying to actually do
do a little bit better in the world but
being frustrated by people who
who want a uh uh an all-answering
oftentimes authoritarian utopian
solution um so oh sorry
i was just going to say part of the
reason that i wanted you to walk through
that is
the reason i'm so intrigued by what you
do and who you are
is because i feel like we are
we're hearing some of those similar
songs being sung now
about um you know people being
called out for being successful that
following you know
logic and things is belongs to a certain
oppressive group and to
leverage those tools is problematic in
and of itself and so they want to tear
that down
and if i remember right and please jump
in i am not an expert on this but
if my understanding of what happened
with the kulaks and you know ultimately
the
the famines that were born out of
basically going hey these are the people
that ended up owning
the land were the successful farmers
they knew when best
how best to farm and when you you
actually
kill them which they did you go in and
kill them now
all the people that know how to farm are
dead and so now farming doesn't happen
and people starve to death and it's one
of those recognizing and this is
like i was saying before we started
ruling never did i think i would talk
about subjects like this
until i actually started to get worried
that this was spiraling out of control
and that people have these really
amazing intentions
that history has shown us end in
incredibly dark places
yeah and something that that's
interesting my my father was a radical
for being a moderate
um when he when he lived in yugoslavia
he got kicked out of his um so so my
grandfather fought in the
revolution we lost um like a lot of
whites they got evacuated
um through actually through through
constantinople which was
which is an interesting story of itself
um and the poor a lot of the poorer ones
went to zagreb
um in a place that wasn't exactly
yugoslavia yet
um which is interesting too um but the
the real tragedy in my dad's life is
that his father then died when he was
six
and he was given away as basically like
an orphan
um in yugoslavia in the 30s which is
just an absolute
uh an absolute horror show and it's
funny despite all this stuff you would
think it would make him radical but he
was stuck between the nazis and the
communists um
and he thought both were wrong he
actually got kicked out of his
um high school because he was anti-nazi
and this was after the nazis had
occupied yugoslavia
um and it's amazing for americans to
think
what how would you feel if on one side
you had the absolute can i say batshit
crazy idea of
anything you want national socialism and
then you've got
the the super murderer of stalin on the
other side and
the fact that he was able to sort of
duck and roll with it is something that
you know
i'm proud of so so anyway that's a long
way of saying
my family has a has a history of
opposing authoritarianism
and and i think it's a little bit a part
of our personalities too
uh my mother's british um uh and
she you know she's actually ethnically
irish um grew up in britain
was kind of self-conscious about being
the irish girl so
in some ways became more british than
the british and i didn't fully
understand that when i was a kid
so and we grew up in the uh in danbury
connecticut which is like in the burbs
of new york city
um and i gotta tell you like the actual
neighborhood i grew up in
was amazing because like people have
stereotypes about connecticut
my best friends were from peru they were
from korea they were from vietnam
uh the guy got no the guy used to beat
me up a lot from puerto rico
like we we had people it was really like
an amazingly sort of multicultural
experience
and meanwhile within my own house we had
really dramatically different norms
about what you should and shouldn't say
so my mom had this exaggerated sense of
politeness
and my father has this idea of
politeness is a form of deception
you know which is true ultimately but so
there's a russian
like like for in some cases uh sort of
brutally brutal honesty you know
and these two things were intention um
so i talk about
my second earliest memory my first
earliest memory is my fourth birthday
i got an aquaman toy and a jaws um a
jaws doll
because it was like 70 seconds and it
was christmas when i was four
and i got a drum from my auntie rona i'd
later find out that um
uh rona was just making a joke about you
know
giving your your best friend kid a drum
was just the meanest thing you could do
to her
but it was a joke so it was this crappy
plastic drum and so i was like
it was the first gift i ever got that i
genuinely didn't like and i'm like
looking up at my
mom and she's asking me if i like it i'm
looking at my dad and i'm like i have to
be polite i have to be honest i have to
be polite i have to be honest
and i just burst into tears and with my
older sister
i'm the youngest of four saying um oh
baby doesn't like his present you know
uh
starts crying and i'm like and i want to
be like no that's not what's happening
it's a paradox like there's there's no
there's no way to actually
resolve this um and so for a very early
memory was that you cannot be both
honest and polite
and then in the actual neighborhood i
grew up in everybody's parents had some
other idea of
what the appropriate thing would say and
if you actually took
everybody's parents norms for what you
were allowed to say nobody'd be allowed
to say anything
so it had to be free speech had to be
the rule basically yeah sometimes he got
punched
you know um for saying the wrong thing
but for the most part
you know like people respected each
other as individuals would hear each
other out and sometimes you know
some and often surprisingly often it
would actually work out
um so i started with as a free speech
person from a very early age
um the next step is college i was a
student journalist
and for a lot of people who were in
first amendment law where they really
get
um radicalized into it if you can think
of it that way
is the experience of having people come
into your newspaper office
and demand that you fire so and so um
and you see
the wheels are turning in their heads
they're like you need to get rid of this
columnist
and they haven't figured out why yet
they just know that they're angry about
that columnist but they but and they and
they will
figure out because whatever they think
is convenient at the time because it's
defamation because it's treason because
it's harassment
they'll come up with some kind of
argument if you give them anything
and you start realizing that's why free
speech has to be so broad and
uncompromising because the human brain
is incredibly good at figuring out
rationalizations for defeating their
enemy and there's one there's one final
step here
um it actually relates to section 230 of
the um
of the communications decency act which
is currently very controversial
um but the original part of the
communications decency act why it's
called that
um was a provision that prevented
indecency on the internet
um even as a senior in
in college i was like that is laughably
that there's no way you can enforce
something that vague and broad and uh
and um i got really um uh i got so
animated about that i started studying
about it
and that's when i took the lsat and
that's why that's why i decided to go to
law school
um and i went to law school and
specialized in it uh specialized in
first amendment law now why is that so
controversial now because it's so
impossible to police
or well the the oh yeah i should have
finished the story
on the original communications decency
act um the it included a ban on decency
on the internet
um and it was def and in in sort of a
a little bit of heartbreaking timing you
know it spent so many years fighting
this
and uh the decision from the supreme
court came out
uh right before i started law school or
right
or maybe in my first couple weeks or
something like that so like oh i want to
be involved in this but i was too late
um because indecency is just too broad
it's just too vague
it could apply to virtually anything and
the supreme court in an opinion called
uh reno baclu said that the internet
should be treated very much like you
would
like the strongest free speech
protections available under the law
and you know that was that that that was
like one of the big causes that brought
me into this stuff
all right so this is where things begin
to collide in terms of
coddling of the american mind and this
notion that we have and i know you hate
the word coddling so
i'm not trying to be derogatory at all
but we had these
good intentions um that ended up
becoming sort of bad parenting practices
because you weren't giving kids the
opportunity to sort of
go get hurt physically to get scuffled
emotionally and have to sort of figure
their way through that and you know
develop a
robust set of skills for dealing with
the world the way that it is colliding
with
this explosion of speech through the
internet and voices that may have once
been very very small now
suddenly can get you know pretty big
attention um
and the increasing polarization and the
calls for sort of the end of free speech
is
quite frankly what it feels like is just
an average joe trying to make his way in
the world here
i think as a way into how you feel about
this i'd love to ask you about
mighty ira so one what was that
documentary and two
you said you were proud of it why oh my
god mighty ira okay
so mighty ira um also to go back a
little bit to you know how i grew up
um the ultimate bad guys as a kid
obviously were was the was the clan um
you know that there was i remember as a
kid um you know
uh they also hated catholics too and i
was raised catholic
but you know just the fact that would
hate my friends was truly bad enough
but i remember hearing that there was a
group of political
liberals who would even defend them and
who would end
unlike the reaction i got from some
other people you know first generation
american kind of
proud of how exceptional and strange
this place was i was like
and instead of being critical of them i
was like that's amazingly principled
that
those are people who really mean it um
you know no make no law means make no
law so from a very early age i was
inspired by this person i'd never even
heard of ira glasser of the aclu and ira
glasser was the
um he was one of the top people the aclu
going back to the 60s
but he became executive director of the
aclu in 79
right after the skokie um
[Music]
there was there were nazis neo-nazis
wanted to march
in illinois um and they wanted to march
in a neighborhood that had actually a
survivors of the holocaust you know
pretty pretty hard stuff
and the aclu came in and defended them
um and
honestly i think that one of the things
that really took the teeth out of the
nazi movement of the 1970s was people
getting to see
what a bunch of horrible buffoons these
people were what
what a joke these people were and so and
the person who
was willing to go that far and really
was became the face of
um the defense of of even nazis
well actually there were several
including ari nair who wrote a book
called defending my enemy which is just
a masterpiece on freedom of speech this
is a
this is a survivor of the camps who is
saying no no
the way we avoid this happening again is
not through greater
power of authority it's through a
tolerance until it hurts but
zero tolerance for actual violence it's
a wonderful wonderful book
um but people like ari nair came up then
nadine strassen was just starting at the
time
a big name in the aclu for a long time
and ira glasser you know
and so a lot of the fame of the aclu
being so incredibly principled
that happened on ira's watch and ira is
just this amazing model
of the kind of civil libertarian i've
i've always wanted to be which is to
you know care about a variety of issues
but be uncompromising on free speech
even if it goes to the
uh to causes that you think are very
important and you have positions on
particular things
you're not going to try to shut up the
people who disagree with you ever
that is just completely outside of
bounds and i know a lot of people from
that generation of the aclu including my
mentor harvey silverglate
who is the co-founder of fire the
foundation for individual rights of edu
and education which i'm the president of
so this whole really fast
why why do you think it's so important
to defend your enemy why
is what is the danger in the breakdown
of freedom of speech
like in the in the documentary you guys
really do a great job of showing what
was going on in skokie illinois which
for those that i was not familiar with
it until i watched this documentary
for those that don't know the story you
have these like you said neo-nazis they
want to march they end up
specifically because they couldn't get
to the part of
downtown chicago that they wanted to
march in they end up sort of on the
outskirts and
they write letters to all these
different little suburbs saying we're
going to march to your neighborhood
everybody ignore them except one the
skokie illinois people now what makes
this interesting
is they were responding because you have
these um jewish people that had survived
the holocaust tattoos i mean they're
they're maybe only 20 years out it's
pretty crazy and
they're saying like we said never again
and so we're going to rise up they're
threatening violence
and you get these like sort of obviously
the punchline is they end up not
marching but the
before that there was all this violence
leading up to it where
just sort of showing their face they
were so ready to fight and the nazis
were
you know ready to fight and so they were
actually fighting and it was
insane and so that's the you know the
moment where the aclu is going and
fighting and fighting and fighting
and i have to admit like watching it as
somebody who
you know not being sort of grounded
enough in politics to
to speak intelligently about the first
amendment other than from sort of a
user's perspective
but watching it i was like [__] like is
there a moment where this is too crazy
where you just say guys they they they
still have the tattoos they're in their
i mean maybe
50s but they're not like 90 and
that's gnarly to have people march
through
their town so with that setup i want to
know
like why is it even in that moment still
important enough
to give them that right yeah i
definitely think there were times during
that whole
process that yeah and there was times
where people were arrested on both sides
for actually engaging engaging in
violence and that's appropriate
but you have to keep a really strong
distinction between opinion
and action um and it's one of the
it's one of the great innovations in
human society um
and when people are arguing that words
are like bullets
and they think this is this innovative
idea that words of violence is like no
that's actually
the overwhelming majority of human
history we've treated words as
indistinguishable as
from violence one of the great
innovations that have brought us so much
good in the world is this strong
distinction between speech and uh
and action when you say that they they
were muddled throughout history what do
you mean
um that is that essentially you know if
you're going back throughout history
well one uh well that's a little bit
i then i start getting into um you know
the
blasphemy um law and the um the way that
that
uh that was like one of the chief um uh
ways of limiting
uh speech you know in in the old days so
prior to
what i mean by muddled is that
essentially in every and
it's hard to find moments in history
where you couldn't be very quickly
hung or executed for saying the wrong
thing um and the idea
that people are genuinely entitled to
their without now the innovation from
that a
human's natural state more or less is
xenophobic um
that you know it's it's really telling
that early greek stories include
um prescriptions of like please don't
kill strangers is one of those things
that you see
like you know ancient bards essentially
telling uh telling people
and it's funny because you realize these
are epic uh you know some of these
people spreading the epic poems are
actually
strangers going from town to town
basically giving stories about why you
shouldn't kill me
um so the hostility towards
non-conformity i think is
baked very uh very much into the human
species
you have periods of tolerance so like
i'd say
there are periods in the roman empire
where there's you know comparative
tolerance that
that essentially people there's some
amount of live and let live with
uh like the jewish population and
different uh different
faiths and that kind of stuff but the
real innovation is not just um
is what john roush calls liberal science
that
everybody's essentially entitled to
their opinion um nobody gets to call
special authority
on things and no argument is ever truly
over and this requires a very big
distinction between the expression of
opinion and action
whereas you know even throughout western
history
opinion and action were uh were muddled
in things like
you know reputational harm that
essentially their dueling
is is a perfect example of what used to
be called a culture of honor that
essentially
it's up to you to defend your reputation
and defend what's yours on your own
usually through violence
the society that that um me and height
end up defending a lot and i defend
in particular is has been named a
culture of dignity which has these ideas
about
autonomy separation of uh of of of
opinion and action
of of um respect for people being
entitled to their own opinion teach
their own respect for
um and and it always comes embedded with
some amount of epistemic humility
uh just the idea that there are there's
not just limits to what i know there's
limits to what i
can know yeah that that whole
um and epistemic is one of those words
that i had to look up because i had no
idea originally what that meant
but uh that's a pretty good definition
that you you just know that you're not
going to know everything and so
stepping into the game with that level
of humility is incredibly important
so that that context to me is so
critical for people under
to understand one why i'm so enamored
with you as a voice
in the world but two as to why i think
this moment is so important
so i want to go back to the nazis
they're about to march in skokie
but now with that understanding of when
you
when you look at history through the
lens of normally people misspeak and
they are killed for it
you begin to understand why it's like
hey this was an innovation
recognize it as such we have to now
protect this innovation because
the alternative is authoritarian and we
start killing people for saying things
we don't like
and the way that that flips and becomes
you're the person that people don't like
that gets killed
happens way too quickly and and that's
the thing it is
that people sometimes call it um uh
like the slippery slope fallacy is what
you're worried about in the case of the
nazis like
what would be the big deal if we punish
somebody as repugnant as
as that and the big deal is that that's
completely subjective and who's going to
be considered that repugnant is going to
move
and move and move surprisingly quickly
um and this is something that i've seen
when people bring up the slippery slope
fallacy in my own career it's
it it's a slippery slope tendency as
soon as you actually give somebody
you know the idea that wait wait i can
ban things because they're offensive
and it's like what we mean by this nazis
um
but i really hate that comedian you know
i think porn is offensive
i think and all these things actually
happened in the in the early 80s
i think dungeons and dragons is
offensive i think comic books are
offensive all of these things happen
um and all you need to do and that that
was the that was the thing i learned
from working
in as a student journalist is as soon as
you open a little door for someone's
mind to be like wait a second you're
giving me a weapon over people i don't
like
yay i'll i'll take it so you have to you
have to police the boundaries of it now
now the
nazi uh representing nazis is the
absolute high watermark of how far
you know people are willing to go um but
the safeguard on that is as soon as
people actually start doing things
you know conspiring towards violence
engaging in in crime
then arrest them by all means
but we have to be very sharply
protecting the power to have any opinion
you want no matter how average
now i actually take it a step further in
my own personal philosophy freedom of
speech
and it's this the project of human
knowledge is to know the world as it is
and that means that if you don't know
what people really think and why
you'll never no you'll never you'll
never understand that so there's
something very primitive about
censorship it's like
it's like saying listen if you have the
follow even if 75
of you have some crazy idea about the
nature of the universe or about your
fellow
man we don't want to know it's not it's
not important somehow which is of course
nonsense it's incredibly important to
know what people think and not just from
a democratic standpoint which it is
but also from a scientific standpoint
from and from a simple
wanting to know what the world looks
like um a perspective there's there's
something
and a child is frankly in my opinion
about censorship the idea that if we
don't talk about it at the dinner table
it will go away and it's like no
actually
it's still there and actually in some
ways because you're not addressing it it
might be getting worse
yeah that uh i'm gonna latch on to that
word childish
um that seems like a perfect
intersection with
uh coddling of the american mind so how
how how do we end up here like we go
from
ira glass or who is jewish if i'm not
mistaken defending
nazis because he understands that
slippers he's a jewish
champion of civil rights um and he was
with um
at the time they sail there are other
people like harvey silverblade jewish
champion of civil rights
um but absolutely the one of the ways
they
they believed you achieved that is by
limiting the power of the state
now how does that make coherent sense to
population to people
to younger people today um there's a
really kind of pernicious reason why it
doesn't and it takes a minute to explain
um when i speak on campuses now and when
i speak at high schools which i'm
increasingly doing
i have to explain this very basic thing
that i never thought you had to explain
before
in a democracy uh
the power of the majority is protected
by the vote
um the rich and powerful are protected
by being rich and powerful
literally the only thing you need a
protection of free speech for
is for minority opinions period
and that's one of the reasons why when
you look at the history of the united
states it's only when free speech
started becoming powerful
which started at first in 1925 it's a
it's a confusing story but the first
amendment had basically no
powerful legal meaning until about 1925
was very weak
um then after 1925 it started getting
stronger and stronger
there was a little dip in the in the
second red scare uh but then
up and up again it's mostly you know an
increasing um
increasingly broad interpretation of
free speech
it's no coincidence that that was the
same time that the civil rights movement
happened the gay rights movement
happened
um the women's rights movement happened
because all of these movements had tried
to start before
um including probably i think even the
gay rights movement that tried to start
in the 1950s
it was only when the in the civil rights
movement there were people who were
trying who were fighting for that you
know
from from day from day one women's
rights movement that goes back to 19th
century
but they're constantly arrested um for
engaging in free speech
and as the law finally started to live
up to what it was meant to
mean in the first place a real broad
protection of free speech that's how you
started getting minority
um opinions out there and he's already
getting civil rights and all these other
wonderful
progressions now why don't younger
people understand this
and it comes to something that that uh i
think people are
sometimes hesitant to say and i think
they should just stop um in k
through 12 and higher education the uh
the overall
sort of power structure of all these
places is very
um homogeneous in terms of it being uh
politically uh left um and this is
established this is just
clear in in overwhelming amount of k-12
in
most colleges in the country of all of
the elite colleges you have
um in some departments you have you know
30 to one in terms of left versus right
professors in some in some departments
you have literally nobody and
administrators it turns out are even
worse now why does this matter if for
decades
there's someone in power but they don't
want to admit they're in power they
don't
they don't own their own power um and
you're coming up to and they're
basically saying that uh
they would like to be able to punish
that person you don't like
um for their free speech what you're
experiencing is an inversion of the
normal power dynamic where essentially
this is the will of the majority
uh on campus but it's not willing to
admit that it's the will of the majority
and the minority opinions are dissenters
whether they be a brett weinstein or
or a conservative or you know any any
group of people who
who don't conform but because colleges
can't own the fact that they are
incredibly powerful
incredibly wealthy um uh if
you know um uh institutions that do tend
to be some homogeneous you end up with
uh generation after generation with an
impression that free speech is the
argument of the bad guy
um that free speech is the argument and
they've never even taught that it's
there to defend minority opinions
because there's this total inversion
of of their actual experience and decade
after decade you you hear people saying
well because of that that lousy free
speech movement i have to i can't shut
down these people you don't like
um without ever explaining to them how
that came
came to be you end up in this kind of
perverse situation where people actually
are coming to believe the absurdity that
free speech is the argument
of power and privilege
wow okay that is uh that is
very interesting that we've sort of
intentionally or unintentionally begun
to sort of flip
the way that people view that um and i i
love the way that you said i would have
canceled this you know evil heinous
person were not for that pesky
uh first amendment that's really
interesting framing that begins to sort
of clarify
a lot of of what's going on you have
some power
and that's and what's and what's messed
up and like i don't think it's
exaggerating to say that this
unwillingness to accept its own massive
amounts of privileged power and wealth
higher education
has also had people um you know
including at my album out of stanford
who uh you know write scholarship uh
about
of restricting free speech that ends up
being popular in other countries
so this kind of free speech skepticism
has actually been exported
you know to other countries even though
we protect free speech really really
well in the united states i think i
think for
in terms of one of the most fundamental
human liberties um a lot of what's come
out of campus has been just a disaster
for for human freedom
whoa that that is a a very bold
statement
um yeah i mean i'm sort of increasingly
becoming aware of
of what that output looks like as an
employer more than anything
but uh that that's a really bold
statement so now
going to um the what you guys talk about
in the coddling of the american mind
there's this
it's almost so weird that i hesitate to
take you literally but you've said it
so many times in exactly the same way
that i imagine you actually do mean it
literally
that somewhere around uh 2013 2014 or
2014 2015 somewhere in there
that seemingly almost overnight all of a
sudden students
go from being the biggest champions of
free speech so the administrators are
are you know nut jobs that are writing
this stuff that's getting exported to
um you know foreign countries very nice
people
all lovely people but um you know
we're we're exporting these ideas that
are
um potentially detrimental and
almost overnight suddenly it becomes the
students who are now fighting against
freedom of speech how like if we were
going to intentionally orchestrate that
how could we make it happen at such a
specific moment
i um i hit that so hard because it's the
difference between being someone who
studies this and actually being on the
ground
because i've been defending free speech
on campus since 2001
you know and we kept a really close ear
to the ground we would hear about
an awful lot of cases even obscure
schools across the country
and it was pretty reliable uh students
were good on free speech they got it
um they they were they would stand up
for professors right so got it better
than professors they got it better than
administrators
and then suddenly um in this semester
2013 it it started more towards the the
end of the fall semester 2013
and then really exploded in the spring
semester 2014 and then
you know here we are it's the first time
you start hearing of students
are really organizing in good in great
number to
to ban particular speakers from campus
to demand new speech codes based on sort
of medicalized rationales um whether
they
may be um uh trigger warnings or um
uh post-traumatic stress syndrome was
one of the things that came up um
and it was not not in the least subtle
and coddling the american mind i mean
really the whole book
is just trying to figure out what was so
different about that class entering in
uh and and i got to tell you
doing the research for it it was
fascinating we didn't at the time
understand that we were dealing with a
new like a new generation of students
with pretty remarkably different
sets of values and expectations um and
we predicted in an article we wrote in
2015 that this would be a disaster for
mental health
um two for it's interesting sometimes it
takes a little bit to explain the
connection between free speech and
mental health
but our original article was trying to
um explain
uh how he got there and we we thought
there was going to be
you know some modest increase in
um mental health issues on campus and it
was an explosion
instead of you know a modest increase
and you know how do we get to the point
where
you've got people that are um
beginning to argue for these ideas that
they're not
they they have flipped but we're really
what we're trying to parse out is
how much of this is social media and how
much of this is them having to keep
everything
inside themselves because i social media
i get just because of the nature of how
it affects like the way that your brain
is developing
and the constant uh feedback from peers
that are hitting you even as you're
going to bed and waking up in the
morning i mean that
strikes me as terrifying um yeah but the
the other side why would it impact
mental health just to have to stay quiet
um
just have to repress your your identity
and your points of view
is is inherently stressful um but
when i think about kind of like where
where a lot of this ultimately comes
from a lot of things that unite
my heights thinking about it is kind of
the
sort of runaway sorting the runaway
homophily effect
you know that that essentially um social
media
just sped up a process that was already
happening but it's spread it out
dramatically
lawfully um the the the attracted
like like attracting like being for
people with similar points of view
with similar homo philly is that what
that's from
you got it got it
sorry yeah i'm i'm a little slow thank
you and so uh
sorting uh i i do think that um not to
oversimplify it but i do think a lot of
what we're seeing
um are problems of society sort of super
sorting
and weird effects that come out of that
and social media is something that sped
up that process so
and one thing that has been interesting
in our subsequent research on the social
media effect on depression
is that we definitely didn't think it
was so much screen time
as as social media and it looks like the
research on screen time
is saying something more that the exp
the effect of screen time is more
ambivalent and
in some cases for some students and
understandably actually it can be
positive for example
but that some of the depressive effect
might simply come from the fact that
in a situation with social media it's
very easy to support
to to sort even by temperament so if
like uh
depressed people start talking to
depressed people
you know the the depeche mode support
group is going to probably get
more depressed so i think that that some
of the effect of social media is
actually
uh runaway sorting effects uh we're just
sub grouping down
and now we get people that i'm sure
there are some people in an upward
spiral but then there are other people
in a downward spiral
and that's being exacerbated in sort of
my area of like mindset we talk a lot
about
you're the average of the five people
you spend the most time with um
and and i've tried to get people to
think about it in a slightly more
expanded way which is you're actually
the average of the five ideas you spend
the most time with
and if those ideas are being reflected
back to you in your depeche mode example
of
the idea that we celebrate is life is
you know [__] and every day you know
life's a [__] sandwich and every day is
another bite and
you know and you just get into that
downward spiral and then there's cutting
and there's
you know all kinds of crazy stuff that
you know people can spiral down into
so yeah i uh i get now what you mean by
how that sorting effect becomes
deranging
yeah and and we do and i do also still
think that the
the part of it that talks about the mean
girls aspect is
also true like because this is hitting
young women harder than it's hitting men
and you know men generally because you
know we're awful when the hormones start
kicking in like
it's kind of like i remember being 11.
i've watched this in other kids you have
this like
weird sort of island of sanity where
you're like what's wrong with all these
mildly younger people and then the
hormones kick in and you're nuts
you're just completely insane but male
you know aggression generally is
physical
or fronting you know in some cases or
actual violence or playing football like
like i was i was actually defensive
tackle believe it or not
um uh but for for women generally the
aggression is expressed socially
uh that essentially it's you know uh
fighting alliances with friends and
gossip and
and all this kind of um you know
nastiness that we all
kind of remember from junior high and
social media makes that
uh into just a super weapon essentially
like
i i can't even imagine what a one of
those scenarios would look like
um with social media like if they had it
back in the day
that being said one of the one of the
things that i was never able to get
enough research on is i do think that in
some cases that scenario becoming hot
led to the response of the anti-bullying
movement and the anti-bullying movement
although i have a lot of sympathy for it
was very
anti-speech it was it was very much kind
of like don't offend people don't hurt
people's feelings all this kind of stuff
um and it and even though i think that a
lot of it was well past
due i do i was never able to really do a
deep dive
into the anti-bullying stuff because but
i do think that that lines up also
extremely well
talk to me about that so what would you
do i mean i know you have young kids so
let's say that there's somebody in class
that's being really hateful to them but
it's just
speech that never spills over into let's
say they're not even in
intimidating them they're just being
mean yeah that that's the thing is um
you know i i've been writing these
things called coddling caveats
or i tried to be very clear and i got
some advice while we were writing the
book that i actually
now think we were wrong to follow which
was i wanted to say a lot of times in
the book that
i'm not good at this stuff myself i am
an anxious parent
um like all this kind of stuff and so to
be clear i'm not prescribing stuff that
i think is easily done
uh that i find easy that my wife
generally has to remind me to do this
um when it comes to meanness you know
i it was kind of taken
at least when we were kids it was kind
of like just genuine meanness
you know there was a sense of like so
what you know
like the um leave me alone you know
uh and then there was also a fair amount
of actual you know
pitting which was not appropriate um i
got you know i got beat up a lot as a
kid
um and i wouldn't want any because you
were lippy
or why why were you getting beaten up a
lot a little nerd
that's so interesting i was nerdy for
sure but i
i didn't get beat up a lot but the
growing up there was definitely a sense
for me and i think you and i are the
same generation
um yeah so right
so growing up for me it was eh
toughen up like if you went and cried
you'd get made fun of for being the
crybaby and people didn't want to hang
out with a person who was always like
super easily offended
and it wasn't even that you didn't get
it like i remember i had one friend who
would cry
a lot and i liked him a lot such a good
dude and i always just wanted to be like
bro like you're not making friends every
time you cry like it turns people off
and we and it's interesting in my heart
when when it was clear a kid couldn't
like couldn't control that you know like
i i remember just how
much sort of visceral pain you would
feel when you'd see someone
who this is why i don't have children
because i don't know that i could put
them
in the position to give them the advice
that i would give an adult which is that
you've just got to toughen up and deal
with it which by the way i think
is the answer and if i were going to sum
up our conversation before we started
having it with one quote the thing i
really wanted to get across
in this whole discussion is prepare the
kid
for the road not the road for the kid
and
i just thought yes like that is so true
there's no way to remove all the
potholes from the world and you
it turns into a totalitarian nightmare
when you try
because people left to their own devices
don't gravitate towards that
it's a rough and tumble world that we're
in and the only way to get
everybody to like play nice or fair or
whatever
is to make it such a nightmare and to
use violence as a way to stop people
from some of their natural inclinations
that the cure ends up being worse than
than the disease and so it like you
i i don't look at this and say oh this
would be easy i look at this and say
this is terrifyingly difficult and is
absolutely one of the reasons that i
didn't want to have kids
but when i think about raising a
well-adjusted child like
they're they're gonna have to figure
some things out on their way they
they as much as no one wants to see
their kids take lumps
they're gonna have to take lumps and
well and in some ways i think we almost
see this too much
through a negative lens because taking
lumps
uh yeah but learning how to um because
the
uh i i read this book that was like
recommended to me as sort of like a
counterweight
to um calling the american mind which
was called the myth of the spoiled child
um which i was like great you know like
let's talk about this and it really is
talking about how
to this particular psychologist's mind
there isn't enough research to prove
that like that's even a thing which is
like
okay that's funny um but um
a phenomena that we've all seen
ourselves uh but
in our lives but the thing that i found
found
well the first thing i found so funny
about it was it was this book
railing against snide and over
simplistic
dummies you know who who think that
spoiling a child was a real thing that
was said in exactly the tone that the
author was tr was claiming was so wrong
it was so
uh snide and and dismissive but there
was a section where it was talking about
just the horror you do to your child
when they have the experience of losing
um like a game like can you imagine
letting them lose was a horror
letting them lose and and it was um this
idea of like
of of failing on a test or failing in
the following circumstances
and it's like you do know there's
another side to that right
where essentially when you play a sport
for example you go from like
i'm crushed that i lost to eventually
like okay yeah
that's okay you know like and yet that
empowerment that happens on the other
side of it that can actually even happen
pretty quickly
if you let it where it's like i handled
that i'm autonomous
i feel pretty good i feel i feel like i
can handle myself the other thing that
you end up producing for that poor kid
is the sense that because what you're
really doing is whispering into the air
constantly
you can't handle this on your own you
need someone up there
to handle this for you and that's
dangerous thinking for a democracy for
one thing
um why is it dangerous the the idea that
every problem has to be solved by an
appeal to authority
um is a why it's so dangerous
[Laughter]
truly you said this in an interview you
said that i actually fear
centralized authority i am so
aggressively on that team
but for somebody who that doesn't make
sense like of course have a central
authority somebody who's looking out for
everybody has their best interests
is willing to you know go to war to make
sure that they're safe and protected
that sounds amazing
why is that bad because essentially what
what you're trying to do with small
liberal systems is have uh is see what
happens when humans
are empowered individually um and and
can actually
uh have autonomy over their own life if
you want
an appeal to authority if you want power
to be taking care of you
um under all circumstances um and to
take away
you know the difficulty of everyday life
you're not actually asking for freedom
you're asking for the system as old as
time you're asking for authoritarianism
you're asking for the czar
and one of the reasons why this makes me
um why
you know like with my family history of
course obviously means a lot to me
and when i started studying 19th century
you know russian thought
i was shocked to see um
pro czar's theorists actually make this
argument
the greatest freedom that russians have
is the freedom from
the czar takes away the the difficulty
of rule
the difficulty of choice the difficulty
of
being all these things you have to worry
about and some of them you know like
your safety of course you do want
authority to take care of
um but everything else we we take care
of the difficulty of being
um uh being autonomous the difficulty of
being in a democratic society all the
responsibility
we take that from you so and that's the
greatest freedom
and i couldn't believe i was i was
reading this it sounded like the dumbest
argument i've ever heard in my life
but the more i thought about it i
actually wrote a piece called
fleabagneum
and uh and censorship gravity
uh uh on my blog eternally radical idea
it's a very weird post but it's
talking about the show fleabag where she
get have you watched that
i've seen the first season yeah um
second season's
much better that's what i heard i love
the first so i'm i'm dying to see this
the first is it's she's a genius um and
but she gives a speech at one point uh
about ask wanting someone to tell her
everything to do
um and about how and she starts crying
about the idea of kind of like
i just want someone to tell me exactly
what to do and it scares her how much
she wants someone to tell her what to do
with this and the thing that i love
about that scene so much is because
freedom is supposed to be scary or
you're not doing it right
um but it's the only way to get to that
sense of autonomy
why does it why does it matter because
i'm gonna i'll give you
uh sort of what i've seen so one of the
ways that i have become
effective at being a ceo is that um i'm
right often enough that the companies
become profitable but
the other thing is that i understand
humans
absolutely crushing desire for certainty
they need me to be certain
and if i'm certain they'll follow me
yeah and all i need to do to alleviate
fear i don't even have to give you the
answer you wanted i just have to show
you that i'm certain that this answer is
going to work
and then i will weather that storm now
it
it's very interesting because in the
business world i i use that tremendously
to my advantage but in the civilian
world it scares me to death
that people want that so
what what is it that because what you're
presenting and again
i i am with you i just want you to put
words on it but
what is it that we get from taking on
this scary ass responsibility for our
own lives of having freedom having
autonomy
having to deal with all that [__]
making those decisions
what is it we get from that that's worth
the price of having to deal with
everything
wow it's a great question and
you know to a degree it's
it's overcome it really is the other
side of overcoming your fears
that that essentially if you leave
someone in a situation where all their
problems are handled by some third party
there's always that sort of fear in
their belly that essentially
if they didn't have the support they
would they would never make it
um the sort of pride and confidence that
you can leave after
having lived through a real a real
crisis it shouldn't take a real crisis
to give
to give you that experience of autonomy
feeling fully realized all of these kind
of things
and i think in terms of a thriving
fulfilling life
um if you're always if you're always
whispering into your own ear that you
can't really handle life on your own
that you can't really handle most
situations on your own that's
that's depression that that's and that's
one of the reasons why i think
uh one of the reasons why you have such
high rates of depression um
and unfortunately suicide and anxiety
among a lot of these students
going to elite elite schools because
they're being told their entire lives
yes you're very bright
but you're not capable of handling your
own life because the real world is
terrifying but of course as soon as you
actually um
face some of those terrorists since you
know it's kind of like getting through
your early 20s
you know which can for a lot of people
can be a very dark time
and then you come out on the other end
of it you're like this isn't so bad
i can do this and it and it feels like
being a fully realized person um and but
you need to be able to you know have
that
internal locus of control that that
internal sense of autonomy
for things like you know actualization
for mental health for creativity
all of these kind of things can you live
a a fulfilling life where you can't make
any
where you don't feel confident that you
can make any decisions
meaningful decisions for yourself maybe
um
but it's not one i'd like to live i i
will
say that i don't think it's possible and
the reason that i don't think it's
possible and the reason that i think
autonomy is so critically important and
that people have to
get it together and take control of
their own life is so i'm
i'm flirting with this idea i call the
physics of being human and i believe
that the human mind no matter where
you're born no matter what time period
there are certain things that your mind
is
compelling you to do so we are an active
species so yeah if you leave us alone
we're going to map out our environment
try to figure it out try to dominate it
get resources from it food water shelter
all that like
you don't have to tell people to do that
they will just do that it's a natural
impulse same with sex
you've got these um things that are
propelling you forward
i think one of them is this desire to
have autonomy that that it is
pre-programmed into your mind and no
matter what i do
if you don't have that there will be a
certain level of anxiety now i'm the guy
that just said people love certainty and
they love to follow you
but there is this what you were talking
about there's this thing running in the
back of their mind that says
i don't know how to do this and because
i don't know how to do it if there isn't
somebody there and you have enough
moments in your life where you're
paralyzed because there's nobody there
to help you
and that is so demoralizing and
terrifying and such a horrible place
that you
carry that then forward with you in your
life
so i believe because that we have this
um subconscious process running in the
human mind that tells us
that we need to do hard things in
service not only of ourselves but other
people
no matter who you are unless you're a
sociopath that is running in the back of
your mind
that you have to get good at something
that matters to you and matters to other
people
and then and this is the key if if i
were to sum up the one thing i'm trying
to get the world to understand it is
this skills have
utility meaning if you learn how to do
something
you're no longer beholden to anybody
else so i'll i'll use movie terms here
real fast
so one of the most horrifying moments in
any movie ever for me or book for that
matters it's based on a novel
is a moment where oliver and oliver
twist comes up and says please
uh can i have some more and he doesn't
get to decide whether he has more of
course the guy goes ballistic
and you just this is exactly why i ended
up getting into business i went into
film and i couldn't get
films made the way that i wanted the
maid and somebody gave me the key
insight
hey you're coming to the world with your
hand out and if you want to control the
art you have to control the resources
so i thought oh my god that's amazing if
i go get rich then i can do things that
i want to do
but to get rich i had to get good at
something the world cared about and i
had to be able to offer more value
and so that process of going in and
fighting to get better every day and
then realizing oh my god
i can actually i've learned a set of
skills that allows me to get a group of
people galvanized around one idea moving
in the same direction with speed
we can create things of value and now
not only do i have resources
financially but i have intellectual
resources that i can leverage to get
other people to help me do something
to have a meaningful impact in the world
now when i think about how i feel about
myself
now where i know i have that locus of
control i look at the world and go
whatever it is that i set my mind to i
can make a major
impact in the world versus how i felt
you said early 20s is a dark period that
[__] was really
dark for me and the reason it was dark
was i had a big dream and i had no
idea that a that i even needed skills to
go and get better
that i could acquire new skills because
i thought that i was born with a certain
set of
talents and that was it so once i
realized
oh okay so steve jobs says look around
the world
it was built by people no smarter than
you meaning if you want to go build a
bridge go learn how to build a bridge
you want to build houses build houses be
a great teacher be a teacher author
whatever
you can learn how to do it go actually
do it and then the world will begin to
change
from your inputs either in small ways or
big ways depending on where you want to
play
so when i think about that whole causal
sequence
absolutely being true and being an echo
of these uh sub-processes that
evolution has baked into our mind
whether we want them there or not
regardless of who our parents are no
matter what time period we were born
into
there are these sort of evolutionary
pressures pushing us in these directions
if you hand your locus of control off to
somebody not only do you now have an
inability
to manipulate the world around you not
in a negative way but to change
the world around you but you also never
realize that desire to have autonomy
and to get skillful yeah and and the
fears just seem bigger and bigger i mean
that's something that all of us have
experienced and something i am trying to
like
i am already teaching i have a
four-year-old and a three-year-old um
and and i am trying to very much say you
know face your fears do this thing
you know like like plant yourself get
get embodied and
because i've uh that kate julian wrote
this some piece for the atlantic that
was sort of like a continuation of some
of the things and coddling
and it really hit hard the harm of
having
um anxious kids and that how much you
have to address your
your childhoods um your child's uh
anxiety and how much of that anxiety
actually comes from the parents in the
first place and there was a horrifying
line that like
you really have to take seriously like
if you if you have a kid who's afraid of
dogs
um that if you accommodate that too much
it spirals into the
in the into 12 things that they're
afraid of and some something that can be
really
horribly life-limiting it's it's
absolutely amazing piece um
that i was able to read able to you know
that i recommend
um uh by kate julian but to your point
about sort of like small empowerments
and knowing how to do things
um i think one thing that the effects
that i actually don't talk about very
publicly and i'm going to talk more
about it is
i'm dyslexic i i'm i it means that
honestly as an adult it doesn't hurt me
all that much um i
listen to everything i can i listen to
audiobooks
i have the the apps that read things to
me spell checks uh godsend dictation you
know like all of these kind of like
fixes make it
more like a minor inconvenience as an
adult
so um but i always think that gave me
one huge advantage
i i always knew i wasn't good at
everything and so i had to delegate on
the stuff i wasn't good at but i also
was desperate to know how to do
something and
you know we were poor when i was a kid
so i
felt so unsafe in a literal financial
sense because we were
you know we were really struggling when
i was a kid until my dad started working
again when i was 12.
but i still had that mentality that i
needed to
learn how to do something so i became a
cook um and once i knew how to cook
it was just like and this was in high
school i was like well i can always
go be a cook and and i meant it you know
like it was
like and my brother's the same way where
it's just like yeah you know like
everything falls apart i still have
something that i can do
and that gave me a sense of sort of like
safety and everything else the fact and
it didn't come from outside it came from
like
you know like one of my best friends the
carpenter it's kind of like
i know how to do all this stuff like if
if if
everything falls apart i can i can still
do these things i'm excited to tell you
all about peak tea listen up my friends
if you're looking for ways to support
healthy immune function
right now you need to hear all about
peak tea
peak is a brand our team here at impact
theory has
loved for years and they just released a
game changer in vitamin c
supplementation
it's an elderberry liposomal sea called
daily immune that one of our impact
theory members
is happy to be adding to his daily
routine what makes daily immune so
effective
is that it is maximized for absorption
most vitamin c supplements absorption
decreases to less than fifty percent
when taking amounts greater than a
thousand milligrams
so you actually end up peeing most of it
out peak has solved this problem however
by encapsulating their vitamin c
in liposomes liposomes are made from the
same material as your cells
they can bypass absorption barriers to
deliver vitamin c
where you need it dailymun is also
the only triple power vitamin c formula
around in every packet you get a
whopping
1900 milligrams of elderberry superfood
complex
that's the equivalent of up to 13 grams
of fresh
black european elderberries plus you get
a thousand milligrams of sodium
which is a buffered form of vitamin c
that's gentler
on your stomach but wait there's more
daily immune is made with just
seven clean ingredients no preservatives
no refined sugars
no additives and unlike most liposomal
supplements
daily immune tastes amazing thanks to
the pure elderberry apple and lemon
fruit concentrates
it's so easy to take too the packet fits
right in your pocket when you're ready
to take it just squeeze it
right in your mouth no glass no water no
spoon needed
you can stash them anywhere and take
them on the go
peek is a brand our team at impact
theory is love for years and if you want
the powerful antioxidant benefits of
vitamin c from peak
we have a special offer just for our
audience if you go to peak tea
dot com slash impact right now you'll
get five percent off your first order
most people are ordering two or more so
stock up before they sell out
once again that's five percent off at
peak t dot com
slash impact and peak t is spelled p
i q u e t e
a dot com slash impact
take care and be legendary
and the the the small empowerment of
these little things
really really matters and so we focus so
much right now in
high schools and unfortunately ideology
whereas i think that if you actually
were to teach people how to do
practical things and i mean this for
students at every level
it would give them a sense of
empowerment that's only possible by
actually doing things not just saying oh
let's increase your self-esteem talk to
me about
trigger warnings that's something that
um
you know given all the things we've
talked about today doesn't strike me as
the best way to
move through the world that while there
are no question that there are some
things that people have been through
that are so traumatic
that i would get why they would want to
avoid them in the future but much like
you
on freedom of speech you need to fight
for your enemies
uh right to say what they're going to
say no matter how horrible and
despicable
i would think that in terms of healing
and moving forward
that just trying to like you said with
the you know
if your kid is afraid of dogs and you
really try to protect them
and coddle them that that actually gets
worse it doesn't get better
that you'd be better off like i make
rules in my life and i will tell you one
rule for myself
no matter what has happened to me in my
life i want exactly zero trigger
warnings i do not want people trying to
prepare the road for me
like i would rather steal myself so that
i can navigate
trigger warns are kind of a funny one
because they have such symbolic power
power in in in the country that they're
definitely something that there are
people who seem to be willing to
fight and die on the hill of trigger
warnings are good and when i first heard
about them
um i was a little bit like puzzled by
exactly what to make of them
and definitely like you know like most
movements in censorship the
the um the intention's always good
someone someone thinks they're saving
the world or saving
the soul of america or in this case
trying to help people who are genuinely
hurting
but it was interesting that they came up
on campus with such a vengeance in 2013
because they'd more or less just been
almost laughed out of existence on the
internet
because in feminist circles um they're
being made fun of because
because originally they started from
very understandable you know someone
saying trigger warning about to talk
about sexual assault
but every time people started using them
they got requests for more and more and
more things that people were claiming to
be afraid of or or triggered by
and it just wasn't sustainable now this
makes sense because
if people understand what triggers
people it doesn't
what triggers people doesn't necessarily
make sense that essentially if you are
the victim of assault it's not
necessarily
watching a movie about a salt that's
going to trigger you from from a
psychological perspective it could be a
particular smell
it could be the color yellow that's not
the brain doesn't work
all the time in this perfectly linear
way that watching a movie about
war can make you feel like you're back
in the war it can actually be something
it can be a
random song playing that can cause you
triggering so the fact that we
that triggers are not nearly as linear
as people would like to
like to think they are um but you know
our initial um opposition to them or
other initial concern to them
was that um it was kind of like uh
telling people uh in the in the
legitimately safe space of the classroom
um that they can that it's this is still
such a big scary thing that we we should
never even talk about it now
in our opinion that has the power of
making uh things that you're
frightened of not uh seem bigger and
bigger and bigger and more powerful
and that was that was kind of our theory
that essentially you know um
uh and when cape man attacked height
about it
um he was saying that uh oh that's like
saying
uh in the new york times uh said
something to the effect of uh
oh like height would just like to uh uh
deal with
people with arachnophobia by throwing
spiderman sorry by throwing spiders on
them
and i gave away the punchline but
heights response was like no
what i'm saying is you shouldn't you
should you should be able to talk about
spiderman around someone with
arachnophobia you know like that
essentially like it's a very different
uh
just being able to talk about something
is actually very different now here's
what kills me though
there have now been like four studies
maybe even five
on trigger warnings not a single one
shows any benefit
at all um to them several of them show
that they increase ambient anxiety the
the people who don't have ptsd
um are suddenly a little bit more afraid
one of the studies
um gave some good reason to believe that
increases people's sense that words are
inherently harmful which is of course a
very serious harm
in a democracy and one of the studies i
believe showed that
people with ptsd had actually made them
worse even for people with ptsd
so there's now a body of of um of
research that that says this isn't this
isn't actually helpful this actually can
be counter
productive but the people who believe in
it just won't give up on it
um and and it's it's like but what else
can you do other than prove that it's
not helpful and if you really
genuinely have compassion for the people
that you're trying to help you should be
able to be moved by what does actually
help them
yeah that's that's exactly where i come
down on the issue is
i get why um people you know when
you're feeling when you have compassion
for somebody else and you hear that
something
might be distressful for them it's like
oh man yeah of course like
i i don't want to upset you but when you
magnify that out over however many
people and
you know some of them it's in good faith
some of them honestly are just
their sensitivity level is dialed way
too high
um and so it's like you can't even have
conversations now and it just begins to
stunt
other things like freedom of speech or
education like just not being able to
talk about certain things
um and that's where i come down to okay
well what really works
and if trigger warnings worked and it
was making the world a better place and
people were
you know more they were able to heal and
then move on like okay cool i would get
it
um but it it feels a little bit like the
tyranny of the minority to me so it's
you know a small handful of people on
any given subject
and now it's like so much of the
discourse is clogged with you know
trigger warnings or shouldn't you avoid
that or a nice person wouldn't talk
about that
it's like jesus like we can't talk about
anything because something is offensive
to everybody
and that's that's even before people
start using it sort of
pathologically of just trying to shut
down somebody they don't like and using
it as a cudgel
um so where do you think we go with this
like as a first amendment attorney
is this something like is there a way to
memorialize this like how
do we keep this from spiraling how do we
get colleges back to the point where
people went there
with a radically open mind uh that's a
um that's a great question and i i have
to say i'm feeling pretty pessimistic
about it um at the moment um
more so than i have in in some time uh
partially because i do think that the
layer upon layer of different sort of um
ideological assumptions and rhetorical
tactics means that
uh you know the people the people on the
other side of free speech can always
win um and you really just have to get
out of the system entirely
something that i was never all that
bullish on that i'm now very
bullish on and this is breaking news as
far as any podcast i've ever done
um there's something called the calvin
report um have you heard of it at the
university of chicago
um i think in 1967 uh the guy who came
up with the
um the term heckler's veto is a famous
uh jurist famous
lawyer um and he wrote a report for the
university of chicago during the time
when uh universities across the country
had activists who were demanding that
they take political positions
and i i've had i've had a real uh
rude awakening on on something that was
very dear to my heart
is that i always kind of assumed that
the free speech movement you know
starting in berkeley in the 1960s that
the
um opponents of that were essentially
conservatives who wanted patriotism and
mom and apple pie
um and i'm embarrassed to realize that
actually the argument was
mostly you know at the time campuses
were still decidedly liberal it was but
it was more like two or three to one
rather than
you know 30 to one but the professors
wanted the university to be a special
place that did its best to be outside of
politics because it's our institution
for creating ideas it's our institution
for
it's one of our epistemic institutions
you know like because reality is hard to
know and we need these special
uh areas and so the cow in 1967 the
university of chicago came out with the
calvin report basically saying
we have a very special function of
society we should be very hesitant to
ever take political positions um we
should always be open to the possibility
we might be wrong
all this stuff that originally for for
most of my career i was like
well that's nice but universities you
know can can engage in
free speech of their own and departments
can engage in free speech of their own
but what's happened um without this
having completely
abandoned the monastic idea of higher
education we've ended up in a situation
where
uh where the that idea has almost like
uh been flooded out and i do think that
some schools and i think this
for some corporations have to get back
to being able to say
no we we we are we we
it's not our job to decide what the
truth is in advance the more we freight
truth with assumptions that we have the
less likely we are to get it i call the
the um ideological uncertainty principle
you know that essentially the more you
uh the more you assume it has to go in a
particular direction the more likely
you're gonna
uh you you're gonna get to get the truth
wrong so increasingly you know i i have
all sorts of ideas for reforms for
higher education
but the most radical one that i've come
uh i've come to after a
you know long period is that some
schools have to say listen we're neutral
on political issues um we believe that
our department should be neutral on
political issues
professors and students are free to have
whatever opinion they want but as an
institution
we are uh it's not our job to decide
what truth is it's not
our job to impose our politics on you um
and i think we need
institutions like that so this was i
think i've heard of this but under a
different name
so um the university of chicago is that
the one yeah
they were known as like sort of the the
big stalwart says
sort of wokism were sweeping the nation
they didn't and i remember brett
weinstein
um saying if if there were some
universities that were woke and other
universities that weren't then you would
get
i think he says game theory basically
the ones that provided the
worse um graduates because you know they
were the
education itself was getting muddied by
politics
they would end up losing out to the
people that weren't woke and were still
using you know
just straight scientific method and you
know putting out the most
um people with the highest level of
useful skills out in the world and so
over time that would sort itself out and
his big lament i think was this that
chicago university of chicago sort of
the last holdout um
had finally sort of given up as well and
um embraced a lot of these other
policies university chicago hasn't given
up but it is being eroded
we have a case involving dorian abbott
at the moment where um
he's a professor who came out and said
something that was very
like um common humanity identity
politics
uh talking about we're going to you know
um help elevate women not by
uh by trying to foster excellence and
and finding people who
are uh who who get by uh not
not evaluated on their identity but on
on their success and all this kind of
stuff that would have been
um absolutely coherent even 15 years ago
is now treated as if it's a demonically
horrible thing to say that they won't
he doesn't think they should be engaging
in different kinds of um affirmative
action
and um you know identity politics and
there was a massive movement
to just out to just get this guy kicked
out
you know there was change.org petition
against them he now has like a section
where he only teaches like one person
he's
been turned into a pariah even at
university of chicago
and that's bad uh that essentially what
what the right response
you know for in for an institution
that's supposed to figure out truth
is you're entitled to your opinion and
this is not the end of the world that
someone
at the university disagrees and the idea
that we're even reached the point where
it's
it's a massive controversy when someone
says something
um that wasn't controversial 15 years
ago
is being treated like a pariah that's
that's a problem for the for the
production of ideas
and what it leads to unfortunately is a
huge epistemic crisis
that essentially when you look at people
on the right who now believe in hoaxes
and the election was fixed and all this
kind
all this kind of stuff um i absolutely
blame them for being superstitious and
for and and for
um uh believing conspiracy theories and
i think i i think that that
i don't forgive them that at all i do
however understand that they don't
really trust
what comes out of higher education all
that much they don't trust what comes
out of mainstream media and
if you look if you ask people in these
institutions it's like well that's just
crazy i'm like
really really you see you see no reason
why they why they think that
it's rigged against their point of view
and when you don't have institutions
that everybody trusts um
that's really hard for democracy so like
one one place where my brain's been at
it's like we need some absolutely
brand spanking new institutions that
involve people who are trusted
by people just simply to tell us what
the world actually looks like to some
degree
because it's hard to know what the world
looks like it takes work to know what
the world looks
looks like and if you don't have any
source that that that um
that inspires uh you know cross partisan
trust
we're in real big trouble and people not
trusting a lot of higher education
after what i've seen for 20 years i
don't entirely blame them that's not to
say that there aren't scientists within
higher education that are absolutely
amazing and understand the world better
than anybody on
on certain topics but as an institution
i don't blame him for being kind of
skeptical
uh of it when particularly uh when you
make it so that
there was a situation where there was a
professor who came out with a study um
about police violence
and just in the last year and it was
essentially withdrawn because
conservatives were
using it people like heather mcdonald
were making arguments based on it
and that's crazy like the idea that kind
of like
so already there's very few people who
will make controversial arguments in
some of these departments
already there's tremendous group think
in these departments but if someone
publishes something that is factually
based but can be used by someone you
don't like you withdraw it like that
that's
why should anybody trust what you come
out with if it's that stacked against
certain outcomes
do you have a sense of of how we've
become so blind to this like
as as sort of a late entrant to thinking
about the culture wars and stuff
um and as a business person i'm always
asking myself okay what is my goal and
what works
what's actually going to get me to my
goal and um
it seems so self-evident when something
isn't working
how is it that we're living through a
world where people
can't see the the sort of history death
loop that we're in
they they i would assume they would take
as is
absurd on its face the following
statement which to me seems self-evident
that the only way to
get everybody to think the right way is
through violence
and that that that experiment has been
run
and it leads to the greatest atrocities
of the last 200 years
you know i mean maybe more than that so
how are they blind of the governments of
um
hitler and and stalin that was
definitely on a scale of thoroughness
that
was really hard for any previous
civilization to achieve just
absolutely monstrous anyway sorry so how
how does this blindness come to be it
just seems so
weird like it there's really smart
people in fact you and brett weinstein
were talking about
the fact that really smart people tend
to get drawn to
some of these ideologies and so what is
it about
legitimately smart people like i'm not
looking down on them i'm i'm
worried and so i'm asking the question
of hey these amazing compassionate
wonderful people
are missing what seems to me to be
hey whenever you're like running a test
the whole idea of running the test is to
have learned from it and so it's like
we've run these tests of trying to force
everybody to think in the same way they
end in bloodshed of like
magnitudes that are terrifying why does
that not seem obvious to them
that's a there's so many different
answers to it i mean i could go all the
way back to plato who i think is a
totalitarian monster who we dress up as
if he's a
as if he's an okay i've never person
anybody say that before who wanted power
for himself and people like him
people would talk about oh the the
republic was just a metaphor for the
soul it's like no
it was his very academic idea of the way
the the way the world should be run and
they should be incidentally run by
people like plato i hope like
like plato himself um and i i and i
think that there's
there's a there's a monstrousness um in
in sort of platonic philosophy that is
essentially
the idea of the forums is essentially
that this the the the
the ideas in my head are more real than
you
and they actually say that
that the ultimate real things in in uh
the ultimate real things and it
are otherworldly you know um uh
perfections of the beauty and of the
circle yeah i mean the world of the
forums was
a real thing uh-huh
and so the academic idea that
essentially
my academic theory my my beautiful
permanent
eternal construct um is all that matters
is a formula for great evil um what can
because we can substitute sort of the
perfect circle with
utopia so it's like my idea of and i'm
trying to put it in
in today's the minds of people existing
today
are you saying that some percentage of
them are thinking
the utopia itself is is more real or
more important more important thank you
i wanted to use that but i wasn't sure
that you would go for it so the utopia
is more important
than you uh and therefore this it's that
whole
um terrifying example of if you want to
make an omelette you got to crack some
eggs
um is that what you think like they're
in the grips of that
sort of mental loop i think that it's a
very common
uh mental loop i i think that most i
think that
there's a huge human drive towards
conformity one of the reasons why i find
plato so incredibly instructive
is because this idea of the ideas are
more important than anything else and
that they're permanent by the way and i
and i have access to them and you don't
um that's evil in in my mind the great
and one of the greatest innovations in
human history
was i forget who the philosopher was who
called it this was the discovery of
ignorance
the belief that um uh in the grand
scheme of things you know extremely
little
um all of us know extremely little and
that none of us are very bright in
isolation
and i it might be part of my personality
i actually take great joy in not knowing
things it feels wonderful
you know to to be an on to not have
certainty
um but i too you know sometimes feel the
pil the pull
of certainty and once you
once you have the idea that the idea
whether that's the utopia whether that's
um you know perfect equality perfect
perfect justice is the greatest of all
ends
people are just abstractions and some of
them are in the way
and i think that that unfortunately is a
very normal part of the way human thinks
and we have this
harder system that it requires doubt and
tolerance
and um always recognizing you might be
wrong
and that there's a speech by
learned hand in 1944 that has a line
that i love quoting because um
it confuses people um when i say it now
it's uh the true spirit of liberty is
that which is not that
that is not too sure that it is right
and people like what what is that what
is what is that a cone
like what does that mean but it is
ultimately this
idea that yes you can work for progress
but you always have to take seriously
the possibility you might be wrong
and if you if you think there's
absolutely no chance that you are wrong
um and that you're absolutely on on the
right path towards salvation or god
or utopia and nothing can stand in your
way
that's when the greatest evils in human
history happen and
these these weirder less comfortable
less certain ideas of human autonomy and
freedom and doubt and
empiricism and all this stuff that's a
very hard way to live
you know for people it's much easier to
come to these sort of like simplis
simplistic binaries or ideas of utopia
or all that kind of stuff so i think
there's always a call bringing it back
our
institutions though that are supposed to
break us up this way of thinking
are k through 12 and higher education
particularly higher education
and unfortunately i think they're
pushing us in a in a oversimplified over
politicized
idea of humanity of society
um that uh did try to come into
existence several times and
was a huge failure and and somehow
rearing its ugly head again i'm not sure
how we exercise the the sort of
simplistic moral utopian certainty that
keeps on asserting itself from
you know the 19th century on um i hope
we can i thought we had in in
1989 and 1991 but literally as someone
who's you know family fought the
communists
since uh since before they even had a
name but london literally fought them
and not
you know my not my actual granddad not
my great-grandfather
uh you know fought them the idea that
this is
i'm reading more stuff about literally
like people talking about communism
being
like like a swell thing again even
though
you know with it within our own
lifetimes it was so conclusively
a a a disaster um and that's partially
because there was never a reckoning
on campus to deal with the ideology was
just allowed to stay the same
um and it didn't have to comport with
the real world and once you get far
enough away from
the examples of these collapses being
fresh in people's mind let's go for
utopia
again what's the harm this this is what
really worries me so there's a
a point when my wife and i are in an
argument where it starts
civil and there's you know emotions
aren't too heated
and we're doing just fine and you know
you can see the exit ramp and we know
how to
you know navigate our way and then
there'll be something that will hit on
that's
just you know maybe one person's raw
that day for whatever reason
and you can feel the emotions escalating
and
i have learned to articulate a very
simple idea in the middle of that
argument which is we are now
at the point where no matter what we say
this is going to end up in a full-blown
argument
because now it's not like logic and
rationality
don't matter anymore this is all just
emotion and
once we have the fight then we can calm
down again
because it reaches sort of that that
crescendo of absurdity
where we go okay this is dumb
you know we're not even arguing about
the thing anymore we're just pissed
but knowing that there is a moment where
a tipping point where you can't go back
now until you go all the way it's kind
of like
if a cac once you take it you are going
to vomit and
i i'm very hopeful and the reason that
i've started
um talking to people like you is i'm
very hopeful that we are not
at that moment yet but i am hyper aware
that as a society
we are racing towards the moment where
the only thing that will calm us down
again
is great tragedy and people will once
again have to see
what happens when the sword of damocles
falls when we try to build the utopia
like what this sort of
like because eventually you get into the
mix of it you go oh
now i get why this sucks right but that
it can be and unfortunately too many
lessons in my own life i've had to learn
the hard way people have tried to tell
me
and you know i just couldn't see it
until i was in it and then when you're
in it you can sort of unwind
but the thing that i i have
working in the inner cities has taught
me one very powerful thing frame of
reference
is everything so i can just tell you
from experience
that iq is distributed evenly right so
you go into the inner cities you're
going to find
people there that are extraordinarily
bright and i will define iq
as the ability to process raw data
quickly
but if the if iq is more or less the
hardware
the what i call the frame of reference
is the software what do you believe to
be true about yourself
what do you believe to be true about the
world the easiest one is
something that's near and dear to your
heart cognitive behavioral therapy
if you don't realize that it is a
cognitive distortion to do fortune
telling or all-or-nothing thinking
or catastrophizing like if those just
seem true to you
and you don't recognize catastrophizing
isn't true it's your mind
projecting and you deciding to believe
that that is actually true
if you don't recognize it then there is
no difference between that and truth
and so you see i've before this was a
controversial statement i've been saying
this for a long time now i'm sure one
day people are going to show up my house
with
uh pitchforks but i would say that
generational poverty has nothing to do
with money
and has everything to do with mindset
meaning if i were to take a child let's
say they were six months old
and they were from impoverished parents
and i raised them
in a wealthy environment they'll grow up
just like a wealthy kid right they'll be
educated
all the intellectual prowess didn't
didn't matter
same genetics but raised one way or the
other makes all the difference
and so i tried to break it down to what
is this really
and came up with this concept that i
call frame of reference
and i the way that i came to it was we
were growing so fast as a company hiring
so quickly i had to
find shorthand ways to interview people
and i started asking this magic genie
question
you'll just have to trust me that it
made sense that one of the things i was
trying to understand required me to
figure out what they wanted out of life
and so i would ask the magi genie
question and i asked it i don't know 250
or 300 times
so the question was hey a magic genie is
about to show up they're going to grant
you one wish and one wish only you can't
wish to cure cancer or bring somebody
back from the dead has to be just for
you
what do you want say that again
from the comic books there's a character
called molecule man i want his powers
i'll have to look that up something
tells me i have thought about what if a
magic genie would ever come what would
you do
and the answer is the ability to through
simple language manipulate molecules so
i'd be so
curious to know if that actually is his
power well molecule man
um and when when people uh hear me say
this kind of like so you want the power
of a god i'm like
well he can control molecules and energy
um and so
when i since i'm a nerd and i go through
like the process i have actually
have thought at great length like what
if you have the whole justice league how
much of the world could you fix
and it's not that much except for
firestorm
firestorm who can like change the change
matter and it occur
like um and when you start you know when
you wanna like make mars habitable or
clean up
take all the mercury out of the ocean or
all this kind of stuff like you need to
start thinking really big
and so like my wish molecule man dude
that is hilarious you were the only
person
ever that has had the same answer that i
have that is incredibly wise of you sir
now sadly that was not the answer that
people were giving me i asked like i
said 250 or 300 times
every single person gave the same answer
and the answer was one million dollars
now they were there for a job so sure i
get it but
i thought why don't they ask for an
impossibly large amount of money why not
a trillion dollars or a money printing
machine that would give currency that
will always be accepted yeah but
financial debt right but instead they
asked for a million dollars
and i realized to them from their frame
of reference
one million dollars was an unimaginably
large amount of money
and that's when it hit me oh my god like
their
vision of what is possible is so small
that
that a million dollars is just like oh
that's outside the realm of possibility
whereas for me it was like you can't
even buy a house in l.a for a million
dollars this is crazy
like you you've got to be dreaming
bigger what what's um
what's really funny about this is that i
have both the the
the same personal experience working
with inner city high school kids in dc
in the 90s
and i got to work with like the really
bright ones too um and
there was kind of almost nothing sadder
because the the dc
um inner city schools at in the 90s were
horrifying like you know you know i i
had students coming like right after
they've been a shoot like right after
that but they've been shooting and they
were you know kind of a little shook up
because it
happened multiple times and these are
like these are kids who have to really
hide
their smarts because they they'll get
beat up for it you know
um but also i grew up poor you know like
i i
i didn't think i wasn't sure i was going
to go to college i started working in
restaurants when i was 11.
um i definitely had a little like a
pretty strong working-class kind of uh
kind of bias and it was only so and i
went to the first
for college i went to the first school i
visited basically i
visited school i had done well on the on
the sats they gave me a scholarship i
was like sure
okay um and so i i i went there and
i and i got and and i kind of thrived in
college
i got to finally like be a nerd um and
let my nerd out of the closet and um
there was this time when i was doing
something for the fulbright program and
i met this dude who was a
barrister slash lawyer human rights
uh international practitioner who did
stuff in south africa
and and and in europe and and it was
and he was talking to me and it was like
something inside me was
cracking like it actually felt
physically painful
to think for a second like could my life
look anything like that
because it just there was still this
powerful separation in my mind between
me and people who are doing really
amazing things those were different
kinds of people
and so when i worked with the nurse and
this was this was like right before i
started working with these kids
and yeah like there is a sense of kind
of like what is
what's the big sky option you know like
what what what
um and and one one big limitation on
this by the way is the fact that
police one of the is that classes kind
of pull economic classes kind of police
themselves to a degree
but there is a sense kind of like so you
know let's let's for some of these kids
so i i go to college you know and i
leave all my friends and they
they uh what's what's out there for me
that that uh
that isn't some kind of betrayal of the
people that i come from was something
that
that i you know i saw a lot about um
that i that i found very
disempowering but yeah believe me that
that mindset aspect the idea that there
is something out there
that could be beyond you know your
previous frame of thinking was
it was literally physically painful the
first time it occurred to me
that's a great way to say it and that's
why this moment
is so freaky to me because that frame of
reference is
so hard to break like you said it can
feel like a betrayal or it feels like a
physical schism
and there is a frame of reference right
now that is
utopian and so people want this pure
utopia
and when you argue against it you sound
like a monster
it's like because the the utopia
if it could be real really is amazing it
sounds absolutely fantastic
and the problem is that once you put it
back in the real world and make it about
actual human beings
then it is so unrealistic as to require
what we've already talked about multiple
times that draconian like you would have
to enforce it through violence
intimidation um just literally crushing
people down
and that's where it's like man how how
do you get somebody to turn away from a
utopia like that sounds
about as hard of a frame of reference to
pull somebody away from as i can imagine
because you're asking them to accept a
lesser view right you talked about the i
think it was the tsar that ended up
getting murdered by a revolutionary
because it was like that's not enough
like it's better but it's not enough
better and so
[__] you we're going to kill you and so
and it might be enough better that it
placates the population and and that
would be a disaster because then we
won't get to we won't get to perfection
and one of the things that i i've had
lots of arguments about this stuff in
backyards in san francisco and of course
i can
always pull the actual family history
card um
but the uh but one thing that i always
have to point out is none of these
systems deal well with human
diversity if you care about diversity um
and i'd explain this in terms of
communism like the idea that kind of
like
if you're going to be paid the same
amount for working 40 hours a week
really well
um and you could get away with 20. isn't
there also a moral argument that you
should spending that 20 hours with your
family it's not it
it so if there's a singular moral vision
um it never works with human diversity
um
it never works with human skills human
knowledge and the idea that some of
these utopias are
done in the name of diversity it's like
yeah but utopias can't
compute diversity like they they need
conformity
um or they don't work uh
more enlightenment like systems that
actually like kind of like the one we
have
where essentially we figured out a
system constitutionally one of the
reasons why i love the constitution so
much
is where even if people are acting
horribly
the system can still hold together
whereas in communism when you require
everybody
to be angels that gives the sociopaths
superpowers
um whereas if you create checks and
balances that say like listen even if
you're being
lousy we we've got a way of dealing with
this internally
then you have a stable system but all of
this thing takes
it can't be simple it takes being honest
about human limitations and and the fact
that
for example you know and there's
something that i have to say sometimes
when i'm dealing with like due process
cases
um i remember um you know dealing with
uh with a case with um wendy murphy who
was talking about how people accused of
assault on campus should essentially
have no due process
and she started on a radio show started
shouting at me it's like you're saying
that women lie
um and it's like i haven't said anything
like that this was my
second time on a radio show and i said
well actually all due process requires
is that people
can be mistaken they don't even
necessarily have to lie
but also at the same time people lie um
and the idea that people can be
dishonest people can be abusive of
course we can be
you also have to you know you also have
to make sure that you're not being gamed
and all of these sort of all of these
like um
uh perfectly uh normal parts of human
nature
uh they don't match well with the with
the utopian uh
vision and that's one of the reasons why
they will all end up as authoritarian
nightmares
so if we both agree that we have a frame
of reference problem you've got people
stuck in a loop of
wanting to build the utopia which is
actually quite noble and
you know you want to commend the level
of compassion
um how do we one do you think that we're
already
past the tipping point is it inevitable
that we're just going to continue
you know on these divergent terrifyingly
divergent paths until you know something
truly erupts into either
authoritarianism or
um civil war type violence or
do you see a way out and if you see it
what is it
um i'm i i'm gonna practice the episode
of humility i preach and say honestly i
don't know
um i think that the fact that trump
continues to dispute the election
right now and you have something like i
think the latest ones about three
quarters of republicans think that the
election
was a fraud i'm afraid that that's going
to blow up and i think that the
the the right and the left are
weird mirror images of each other and i
think that we
we can face disaster from from from both
uh
and i'm afraid that there's going to be
a blow up there's going to be something
really scary happening in the next
couple years and i'm not sure exactly
what but it's
you know when you have that many of the
population who believe the election was
stolen
that could get that could get really
ugly really quickly i hope
that like um what happened with timothy
mcveigh
in the mid 90s a horrifying oklahoma
city bombing
that did that got a lot of people in
whoa whoa no no no no we don't
nobody wants that that that's that's not
the way we we handle this stuff
i hope it doesn't come to something that
horrible but for the first time in my
i've never heard someone call for
martial law um in
in us history and michael flynn taking
out that that ad saying that
he wants martial law and when you
already have sort of a utopian
movement on on the left and you have
sort of a
i don't know what to call it you know
sort of like a a nationalist populist
movement on the right that's a
that's a scary phenomenon and i honestly
don't know how it ends what i do know is
we need to start thinking and this is
something that i think you could
probably
help with we need to start thinking
about
institutions that people trust um the
american psychiatric association came
out against toxic
masculinity you know for example um
which is
absolutely taking a position more or
less against man
the uh the american association of
university professors actually came out
in some cases against professors the new
york times you know
fires james bennett because he ran a uh
editorial by a sitting senator
um a lot of these institutions have lost
people's faith
for understandable reasons and
increasingly i think that there needs to
be at least a couple institutions that
people all over the spectrum can look at
and go well at least i trust these guys
and i don't think that exists at the
moment um and i think it desperately
needs to even just
one would help well said
well said i think that's a good place to
tap out
greg man thank you for all the stuff you
put in the world dude you're
just a voice that i am really really
into all the first amendment stuff i
highly encourage people to watch the
documentary
nico perino it was his passion project
and man he ran with it
and if you haven't already read the
coddling of the american mind whoo
is that a good one no problem that is
absolutely extraordinary
where can people engage with you
thefire.org
my organization is the foundation for
individual rights and education we
defend free speech due process academic
freedom on campus but increasingly we're
taking on the role of educating people
about
small liberal concepts and and freedom
of speech i also have a blog
called the eternally radical idea which
is also on fire
eternally radical idea being free speech
it's always a radical idea to every
generation
partially embodied by the fact that in
every generation
people oppose it yeah
sad but true guys really truly somebody
that has blown my mind i hope you guys
will dig into the stuff that we've
talked about and
i hope you from a contextual standpoint
understand why i'm so obsessed with this
this has to do with frame of reference
and thinking in a way that allows you to
achieve your exciting and hopefully
honorable goals
and that is certainly my only desire and
speaking of exciting and honorable if
you haven't already be sure to subscribe
and until
next time my friends be legendary take
care
you